Webview2 HoloLens 2 Getting Started Tutorial (#2567)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2.md

---
title: Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps
description: Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps.

> author: MixedRealityTeam

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: MSEdgeTeam
```

Reviewer: now reads
```
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
```
you can close this thread

> ms.author: tdb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.author: msedgedevrel
```

Reviewer: now reads
```
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
```
you can close this thread

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 04/17/2023
---
# Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps (Preview)

> [!NOTE]
> WebView2 on HoloLens 2 and the WebView Unity plugin are both in Preview and are subject to change before general availability.

In this tutorial, you:

* Set up your development tools for creating HoloLens 2 Unity apps that use WebView2 to display web content.
* Install the Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK) using the MRTK Feature Tool.
* Create an initial Unity project for HoloLens 2 development.
* Add the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin.
* Configure a WebView2 prefab that displays webpage content in your HoloLens 2 app.
* Learn about WebView2 concepts and interactions in Unity.

> [!NOTE]

> > *This tutorial is for developers using WebView2 in immersive HoloLens 2 Unity applications. For WebView2-enabled 2D applications on HoloLens 2, refer to the [WinUI 2 (UWP) tutorial](winui2).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> *This tutorial is for developers using WebView2 in immersive HoloLens 2 Unity applications. For WebView2-enabled 2D applications on HoloLens 2, see [Get started with WebView2 in WinUI 2 (UWP) apps](./winui2.md).*
```
./ helps the tools and is what they insert.
.md is required for tools eg doc build

Reviewer: now reads
```
This tutorial is for developers using WebView2 in immersive HoloLens 2 Unity applications.  WebView2 on HoloLens 2 and the WebView plugin for Unity are both in Preview and are subject to change before general availability.

WebView2 is only supported on HoloLens 2 devices running the Windows 11 update. For more information, see [Update HoloLens 2](/hololens/hololens-update-hololens).

For WebView2-enabled 2D applications on HoloLens 2, see [Get started with WebView2 in WinUI 2 (UWP) apps](./winui2.md).
```
you can close this thread

You use the Unity game engine and Visual Studio to create your HoloLens 2 project. The Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK) provides essential components and features for developing mixed reality experiences, while the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin enables the integration of WebView2 functionality into your HoloLens 2 app.

The MRTK is a Microsoft-driven open source project that accelerates the development of mixed reality applications in Unity. This toolkit provides a collection of scripts, components, and prefabs designed to help you create performant and intuitive mixed reality experiences for HoloLens 2 devices.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > WebView2 is only supported on HoloLens 2 devices running the Windows 11 update. For more information, see [Update HoloLens 2](../../../hololens/hololens-update-hololens).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> WebView2 is only supported on HoloLens 2 devices running the Windows 11 update. For more information, see [Update HoloLens 2](../../../hololens/hololens-update-hololens.md).
```
not finding that .md yet but will need extension .md if in same repo.  if URL is live now, paste in this comment thread

Reviewer: now reads:
```
WebView2 is only supported on HoloLens 2 devices running the Windows 11 update. For more information, see [Update HoloLens 2](/hololens/hololens-update-hololens).
```
you can close this thread

In Unity, the **Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView** plugin can be installed via the **MRTK Feature Tool**. The WebView plugin for Unity simplifies the integration of WebView2 functionality into your HoloLens 2 app by wrapping the WebView2 control and automatically handling rendering and directing input to the WebView2 control. The plugin also manages interop between Unity and WebView2, enabling communication between JavaScript and Unity via messages and events.

By combining HoloLens 2, Unity, MRTK, and WebView2, you can create immersive mixed reality experiences that seamlessly integrate web content.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 1 - Install Unity and Visual Studio

This tutorial assumes you have Unity 2020.3 LTS or later and Visual Studio 2019 version 16.9 or later installed. Visual Studio 2017 isn't supported.

> Follow the [Mixed Reality tools installation guide](../../../windows/mixed-reality/develop/install-the-tools?tabs=unity) to set up your Unity and Visual Studio environment for HoloLens 2 development. These resources will guide you through the process of installing and configuring the necessary tools, including Visual Studio and the Universal Windows Platform development workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Mixed Reality tools installation guide](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/install-the-tools?tabs=unity) to set up your Unity and Visual Studio environment for HoloLens 2 development. These resources will guide you through the process of installing and configuring the necessary tools, including Visual Studio and the Universal Windows Platform development workload.
```
scenario: linking to doc that's at LMC but not present repo/TOC.
https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/mixed-reality/develop/install-the-tools?tabs=unity

Reviewer: url path now reads:
Follow the [Mixed Reality tools installation guide](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/install-the-tools?tabs=unity) to set up your Unity and Visual Studio environment for HoloLens 2 development. These resources will guide you through the process of installing and configuring the necessary tools, including Visual Studio and the Universal Windows Platform development workload.

you can close this thread

> Additionally, ensure that your development environment is set up for WebView2 by following the instructions on [Set up your Dev environment for WebView2](../how-to/machine-setup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, ensure that your development environment is set up for WebView2 by following the steps in [Set up your Dev environment for WebView2](../how-to/machine-setup.md).
```
same repo so start with . and end with .md

Reviewer: now reads:
Also set up your development environment for WebView2, by following the steps in [Set up your Dev environment for WebView2](../how-to/machine-setup.md).

you can close this thread

Once you have completed the setup, return to this page and continue with the next steps.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 2 - Install MRTK and MRTK Feature Tool

> 1. To install the Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK) and the MRTK Feature Tool, first [Download the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](../../../windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/welcome-to-mr-feature-tool) from the Microsoft Download Center. The MRTK Feature Tool simplifies the process of discovering, installing, and managing Mixed Reality features and packages for your Unity project. For more guidance on installing the Mixed Reality Feature Tool, refer to [this page](../../../windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/welcome-to-mr-feature-tool) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To install the Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK) and the MRTK Feature Tool, first [Download the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/welcome-to-mr-feature-tool) from the Microsoft Download Center. The MRTK Feature Tool simplifies the process of discovering, installing, and managing Mixed Reality features and packages for your Unity project. For more guidance on installing the Mixed Reality Feature Tool, refer to [this page](../../../windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/welcome-to-mr-feature-tool) for more information.
```
different doc-set/repo, so start w/ slash, end w/ no .md

https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/welcome-to-mr-feature-tool

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth -- check the URL i changed to -- https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=102778 -- and then close this thread

---
title: Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps
description: Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 05/01/2023
---
# Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps (Preview)

> [!NOTE]
> WebView2 on HoloLens 2 and the WebView Unity plugin are both in Preview and are subject to change before general availability.

In this tutorial, you:

* Set up your development tools for creating HoloLens 2 Unity apps that use WebView2 to display web content.

> * Install the Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK) using the Mixed Reality Feature Tool.

Reviewer: techreview: @michaelfarnsworth - in this .md file, Find "Mixed Reality Feature Tool", see if it should say "Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK)" instead.  

I globally changed from the hybrid combination:
MRTK Feature Tool
to:
Mixed Reality Feature Tool

I didn't change any to:
Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK)

Author: Looks good.

Reviewer: you can close this thread

* Repo directory: [HoloLens2_GettingStarted](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Samples/tree/main/GettingStartedGuides/HoloLens2_GettingStarted)
* Unity project folder: **HoloLens2GetStartedApp**

Follow the major Step sections in sequence, below.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### About HoloLens 2, Unity, MRTK, and WebView2

**HoloLens 2** is a groundbreaking, untethered holographic device, offering a hands-free and immersive mixed reality experience. It seamlessly overlays digital information onto the real world, rendering high-definition holograms that stay in place and respond naturally to interaction.

**Unity**, a versatile game engine, is a popular choice for creating 3D applications, including mixed reality experiences for HoloLens 2 devices, due to its extensive features and robust capabilities for AR/VR/MR.

The **Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK)** is a Microsoft-driven open source project designed to accelerate the development of mixed reality applications in Unity. MRTK provides a collection of scripts, components, and prefabs specifically designed for building performant and intuitive mixed reality experiences on HoloLens 2 devices.

> In Unity, the **Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView** plugin can be installed via the **Mixed Reality Feature Tool**. The WebView plugin for Unity simplifies the integration of WebView2 functionality into your HoloLens 2 app by wrapping the WebView2 control and automatically handling rendering and directing input to the WebView2 control. The plugin also manages interop between Unity and WebView2, enabling communication between JavaScript and Unity via messages and events.

Reviewer: tech review:  @michaelfarnsworth -- make sure this should be "Mixed Reality Feature Tool" not "MRTK""

Reviewer: thx, you can Resolve this conversation

---
title: Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps
description: Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 05/01/2023
---
# Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps (Preview)

> 

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth - pls review proposed long name & short name of plugin.  I believe there's only 1 plugin referred to by these names.  After you confirm a long name and short name to use, it should be clear what changes to make.

Proposed consistent long name:
the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin

Proposed consistent short name:
the WebView plugin for Unity
_____________
Names found in draft:

Long name:

the **Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView** plugin -- bold ok for introducing.
the "Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView" plugin -- remove quotes or (less likely) add bold.
the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin
the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin
the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin
the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin
the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin

Short name:

the WebView plugin for Unity  <-- best, clearest
the WebView Unity plugin <-- change to above
Unity WebView plugin <-- change to above

Super-short name, add "for Unity" suffix as context specifier:

the WebView plugin
the WebView plugin
the WebView plugin
the WebView plugin
the WebView plugin

Author: The proposals look good to me.

Reviewer: implemented in .md globally.
you can Resolve this thread

By combining HoloLens 2, Unity, MRTK, and WebView2, you can create immersive mixed reality experiences that seamlessly integrate web content.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 1 - Install Unity and Visual Studio

This tutorial assumes you have Unity 2020.3 LTS or later and Visual Studio 2019 version 16.9 or later installed. Visual Studio 2017 isn't supported.

Follow the [Mixed Reality tools installation guide](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/install-the-tools?tabs=unity) to set up your Unity and Visual Studio environment for HoloLens 2 development. These resources will guide you through the process of installing and configuring the necessary tools, including Visual Studio and the Universal Windows Platform development workload.

Also set up your development environment for WebView2, by following the steps in [Set up your Dev environment for WebView2](../how-to/machine-setup.md).

Once you have completed the setup, return to this page and continue with the next steps.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 2 - Set up Unity project for HoloLens 2 development

> Before you can start developing a HoloLens 2 app with WebView2, you'll need to set up your Unity project for HoloLens 2 development. To prepare your project for mixed reality development, follow the steps in [Unity development for HoloLens 2](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/unity-development-overview?tabs=arr,D365,hl2) in the Mixed Reality documentation. For a step-by-step walkthrough of configuring a Unity project refer to [Set up a new OpenXR project with MRTK](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/new-openxr-project-with-mrtk)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can start developing a HoloLens 2 app with WebView2, you'll need to set up your Unity project for HoloLens 2 development. To prepare your project for mixed reality development, follow the steps in [Unity development for HoloLens 2](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/unity-development-overview?tabs=arr,D365,hl2) in the Mixed Reality documentation. For a step-by-step walkthrough of configuring a Unity project, see [Set up a new OpenXR project with MRTK](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/new-openxr-project-with-mrtk).
```
missing period common after markdown link tagging

* **Use TrySuspendAsync API**: When the WebView2 is not being presented to the user, use the `TrySuspendAsync` API to reduce memory usage. You will need to get the native WebView2 instance, to call this API (⚠️ this is TBD, and we will update this section<!--todo--> accordingly ⚠️).

* **Apply general Unity optimization techniques**: Utilize standard Unity optimization methods, such as occlusion culling or limiting the update rate, to improve WebView2 performance. For more information, see [Performance recommendations for Unity](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/performance-recommendations-for-unity?tabs=openxr) in the Mixed Reality documentation.

* **Profile and monitor WebView2 performance**: There are several ways to profile the performance of a HoloLens 2 Unity application:

  * **Unity Profiler**: A built-in tool in Unity that allows you to measure and optimize the performance of your application on various platforms, including HoloLens 2.

  * **Visual Profiler**: A feature of the Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK) that provides an in-application view of your application's performance.

>   * **PIX**: A performance tuning and debugging tool for Windows and Xbox that can also be used to profile Unity applications on HoloLens 2.

Reviewer: per Nishitha, remove; so you can Commit my Suggested Change.

>   * **PIX**: A performance tuning and debugging tool for Windows and Xbox that can also be used to profile Unity applications on HoloLens 2.

Author: I think it stays. @JordanMandel?

Once you have completed the setup, return to this page and continue with the next steps.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 2 - Set up Unity project for HoloLens 2 development

Before you can start developing a HoloLens 2 app with WebView2, you'll need to set up your Unity project for HoloLens 2 development. To prepare your project for mixed reality development, follow the steps in [Unity development for HoloLens 2](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/unity-development-overview?tabs=arr,D365,hl2) in the Mixed Reality documentation. For a step-by-step walkthrough of configuring a Unity project, see [Set up a new OpenXR project with MRTK](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/new-openxr-project-with-mrtk).

Once you have your Unity project ready for HoloLens 2 development, you'll need to configure MRTK in your project.  To set up the Mixed Reality Toolkit in your Unity project, see [Welcome to the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/welcome-to-mr-feature-tool).

> After you've installed the MRTK and Mixed Reality Feature Tool, the MRTK assets and prefabs appear in your Unity project, ready for use.

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth - could you pls move the above two paragraphs into Step 3 h2 section below?  out of place i think.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 3 - Install MRTK and Mixed Reality Feature Tool

1. To install the Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK) and the Mixed Reality Feature Tool, first [Download the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=102778) from the Microsoft Download Center.

   The Mixed Reality Feature Tool<!--todo: and MRTK? --> simplifies the process of discovering, installing, and managing Mixed Reality features and packages for your Unity project. For more guidance on installing the Mixed Reality Feature Tool, see [Welcome to the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/unity/welcome-to-mr-feature-tool).

1. Run the downloaded Mixed Reality Feature Tool executable and follow the prompts to install the MRTK and any additional required packages for HoloLens 2 development.

   The Mixed Reality Feature Tool allows you to select and install the appropriate versions of MRTK, along with other Mixed Reality features, directly into your Unity project.

> Proceed to the next step to set up your Unity project for HoloLens 2 development.

Reviewer: "Proceed to the next step to set up your Unity project for HoloLens 2 development."
why next step?  the previous step covers that, according to its heading:
Step 2 - Set up Unity project for HoloLens 2 development
```suggestion
Proceed to the next step to install the WebView plugin for Unity by using the Mixed Reality Feature Tool.
```

Reviewer: changed to robust generic
```
Continue to the next step.
```
you can close this thread

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 4 - Install Unity WebView plugin via Mixed Reality Feature Tool

In this step, you'll use the Mixed Reality Feature Tool to install the "Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView" plugin that contains a specific version of the WebView2 NuGet package, which is compatible with HoloLens 2.

1. Launch the Mixed Reality Feature Tool (which you installed above). The start page of the Mixed Reality Feature Tool opens, containing options to configure settings, and view documentation:

   ![The Configure Settings button in the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](./hololens2-images/mrtk_feature_tool_start_page.png)

> 2. Click the gear button.  The **Settings** pane opens.

Reviewer: i'll change to convention 1 1 1 numbering, not sure how widespread convention eg Docs Contributor Guide

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Navigation

In step 6, we touched on some navigation methods. In this section, we'll expand on what we learned.

**`IWebView` Interface**
The `IWebView` interface exposes a few methods, events, and properties related to page navigation. The main functionality exposed here is the ability for developers to navigate to a given URL, by using `Load(Uri url)`:

```C#
public interface IWebView
{
    // Non-navigation methods are removed for clarity.

    event WebView_OnNavigated Navigated;

    Uri Page { get; }

    void Load(Uri url);

    void Reload(bool ignoreCache);
}
```

**`IWithBrowserHistory` Interface**
The `IWithBrowserHistory` interface exposes a few methods and events related to page navigation. This mainly allows developers to navigate forward and backward, as you would expect with a typical web-browsing experience:

```C#
public interface IWithBrowserHistory : IWebView
{
    // Non-navigation methods are removed for clarity.

    event WebView_OnCanGoForwardUpdated CanGoForwardUpdated;

    event WebView_OnCanGoBackUpdated CanGoBackUpdated;

    void GoBack();

    void GoForward();
}
```

> The `SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping` method in WebView2 enables mapping between a virtual host name and a folder path, making it accessible to websites using that host name. This method maps a local domain name to a local folder so that the WebView2 control loads content from the specified local folder when attempting to access a resource for that domain.

Reviewer: SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping occurs 1x, seems to be wrong and means SetVirtualHostMapping so i'm locally changing to that  
@michaelfarnsworth

Reviewer: done.  present Comment Outdated, see https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/2567/files
Find in .md view:
The `CoreWebView2.SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping` method enables mapping between a virtual host name and a folder path
Find in Rendered view:
The CoreWebView2.SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping method enables mapping between a virtual host name and a folder path

You can close thread

Reviewer: changed to
```
The [CoreWebView2.SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.setvirtualhostnametofoldermapping) enables mapping
```
you can close thread

Simple example:

```C#
using Microsoft.MixedReality.WebView;

public class WebViewExample : MonoBehaviour, IPointerDownHandler
{
    // WebView setup steps skipped for brevity

    public void OnPointerDown(PointerEventData eventData)
    {
        IWithMouseEvents mouseEventsWebView = webView as IWithMouseEvents;

        // Call hypothetical function which converts the event's x, y into the WebView2's coordinate space.
        var hitCoord = ConvertToWebViewSpace(eventData.position.x, eventData.position.y);

        WebViewMouseEventData mouseEvent = new WebViewMouseEventData
        {
            X = hitCoord.x,
            Y = hitCoord.y,
            Type = PointerEvent.PointerDown,
            Button = PointerButton.Left,
            TertiaryAxisDeviceType = WebViewMouseEventData.TertiaryAxisDevice.PointingDevice
        };

        // Propagate the event to the WebView plugin.
        mouseEventsWebView.MouseEvent(mouseEvent);
    }
}
```

> In the above example, pointer-down events are converted into `WebViewMouseEventData` objects and forwarded to the WebView plugin. It is essentially converted into a mouse-down event. In order to effect mouse click events, the pointer-up would need to be handled in a similar fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, pointer-down events are converted into `WebViewMouseEventData` objects and forwarded to the WebView plugin. It is essentially converted into a mouse-down event. In order to affect mouse click events, the pointer-up would need to be handled in a similar fashion.
```
tech review this change.
alts:
to emulate mouse click events
to raise mouse click events

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth -- is "effect" the intended word?  Meaning is unclear, see suggested alt words

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 4 - Install Unity WebView plugin via Mixed Reality Feature Tool

In this step, you'll use the Mixed Reality Feature Tool to install the "Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView" plugin that contains a specific version of the WebView2 NuGet package, which is compatible with HoloLens 2.

1. Launch the Mixed Reality Feature Tool (which you installed above). The start page of the Mixed Reality Feature Tool opens, containing options to configure settings, and view documentation:

   ![Mixed Reality Feature Tool start page](./hololens2-images/screenshot_mrtk_feature_tool_start_page.png)

1. Click the gear button.  The **Settings** pane opens.

1. Click the **Feature** tab, and then make sure the **Show preview releases** checkbox is selected:

   ![Mixed Reality Feature Tool settings](./hololens2-images/screenshot_feature_enable_preview_releases.png)

1. Click the **Ok** button to return to the starting page.

1. Click the **Start** button to begin discovering feature packages.

> 1. Point the Mixed Reality Feature Tool to your Unity project.  To do this, click the **Edit**<!--todo: change "Edit" to string from tooltip--> (**...**) button to the right of the project path field:

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth -- is there a tooltip sting when hover on ... button icon?  might say "Edit", "Modify", "Settings", etc.

Author: Updated.

Reviewer: now reads:
Point the Mixed Reality Feature Tool to your Unity project. To do this, click the Browse for the project folder (...) button to the right of the Project Path field:

gh rendered:
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/blob/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2.md#step-4---install-the-webview-plugin-for-unity-by-using-the-mixed-reality-feature-tool

you can close this thread

>    ![Select the Unity project](./hololens2-images/screenshot_feature_tool_select_unity_project.png)

Reviewer: todo: me or owner -- polish alt-text

alt-text specialized mindset POV:
In a phone call, I'm telling you which png I'm talking about, to differentiate the pngs: 
I'm talking about the png that shows X.

Then set the alt-text to X.

Reviewer: i did a pass on alt-text
you can close this thread

                BackButton.onClick.AddListener(() => history.GoBack());

                // Update the back button's enabled state based on whether there's any history to go back to
                history.CanGoBackUpdated += CanGoBack;
            }

            // Add an event listener for the go button to load the URL entered in the input field
            GoButton.onClick.AddListener(() => webView.Load(new Uri(URLField.text)));

            // Subscribe to the Navigated event to update the URL input field whenever a navigation occurs
            webView.Navigated += OnNavigated;

            // Set the initial value of the URL input field to the current URL of the WebView
            if (webView.Page != null)
            {
                URLField.text = webView.Page.AbsoluteUri;
            }
        });
    }

    // Update the URL input field with the new path after navigation
    private void OnNavigated(string path)
    {
        URLField.text = path;
    }

    // Enable or disable the back button based on whether there's any history to go back to
    private void CanGoBack(bool value)
    {
        BackButton.enabled = value;
    }
}
```

> 1. Modify the scene hierarchy as follows:

Author: @mikehoffms any idea what keeps happening to the numbering? It looked correct on my local machine.

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth - i'm in the file, will fix by shifting the above code block right to align w/ text to right of "1. "

Reviewer: i have the Learn Authoring Pack installed.  after shift right, VS Code's preview (w/ pak) looks ok #ing

Reviewer: fixed, see # below code listing in 
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/blob/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2.md#step-6---configure-webview2-settings-and-properties

you can Resolve this conversation

   ![The Configure Settings button in the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](./hololens2-images/mrtk_feature_tool_start_page.png)

1. Click the gear button.  The **Settings** pane opens.

1. Click the **Feature** tab, and then make sure the **Show preview releases** checkbox is selected:

   ![the Feature tab in Settings for the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](./hololens2-images/feature_enable_preview_releases.png)

1. Click the **Ok** button to return to the starting page.

1. Click the **Start** button to begin discovering feature packages.

1. Point the Mixed Reality Feature Tool to your Unity project.  To do this, click the **Browse for the project folder** (**...**) button to the right of the **Project Path** field:

   ![Select the Unity project in the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](./hololens2-images/feature_tool_select_unity_project.png)

1. In the file selection dialog, select your Unity project folder, and then click the **Open** button.

1. In the **Select project** dialog, click the **Discover Features** button.

1. In the **Discover Features** page, expand the **Other features** section, and then select the **Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView** checkbox:

>    ![The Discover Features pane in the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](./hololens2-images/mrtk_webview2_selected.png)

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth - add checkbox in capture.  i'll look for one in other pngs

gh rendered section
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/blob/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2.md#step-4---install-the-webview-plugin-for-unity-by-using-the-mixed-reality-feature-tool
Find "In the Discover Features page, expand the Other features section, and then select the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView checkbox:"

png link
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/raw/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2-images/mrtk_webview2_selected.png

Reviewer: if checkmark looks ok
png link
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/raw/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2-images/mrtk_webview2_selected.png
you can close this thread

Author: Looks perfect!

* **Performance**: Complex websites with heavy use of JavaScript or advanced rendering may impact system performance or the host application's framerate. For general performance-related limitations and recommendations, see [Understanding performance for mixed reality](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/advanced-concepts/understanding-performance-for-mixed-reality) in the Mixed Reality documentation. Also see [Performance optimization](#performance-optimization), below.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Navigation

In Step 6, we touched on some navigation methods. In this section, we'll expand on what we learned.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### IWebView interface

<!-- [IWebView::Load method]()-->

The `IWebView` interface exposes a few methods, events, and properties related to page navigation. The main functionality exposed here is the ability to navigate to a given URL, by using `Load(Uri url)`:

```C#
public interface IWebView
{
    // Non-navigation methods are removed for clarity.

    event WebView_OnNavigated Navigated;

>     Uri Page { get; }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Uri Page { get; };
```
@michaelfarnsworth - tech review this change

Author: Not needed.

      private void CanGoBack(bool value)
      {
         BackButton.enabled = value;
      }
   }
   ```

1. Modify the scene hierarchy as follows:
   1. Under `MixedRealitySceneContent`, add a new input component (right-click > **UI** > **Input Field - TextMeshPro**). This automatically adds a parent `Canvas` for the component.
   1. Under the new `Canvas`, add **two** new `Button` components (right-click > **UI** > **Button - TextMeshPro**).
   1. Reorder the `WebView` component so that it is a child of the `Canvas` component:

   ![Updated scene hierarchy with new components in Unity](./hololens2-images/unity_scene_hierarchy.png)

1. Update the Canvas properties by selecting the Canvas in the **Hierarchy** pane, then making the following changes in the **Inspector** pane:
   1. Change **Width** & **Height** to 600, 400 respectively.
   1. Change **Scale** for X, Y, Z to 0.001, 0.001, 0.001:

   ![Updated Canvas properties in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_canvas_inspector.png)

1. Update the input field's properties by selecting it in the **Hierarchy** pane, then making the following changes in the **Inspector** pane:

>    1. Change **Name** to "AddressWell (TMP)"

Reviewer: Which string is correct?  The text or png needs fix.
Text:   AddressWell (TMP)
.png:  AddressField (TMP)

gh rendered section:
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/blob/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2.md#step-6---configure-webview2-settings-and-properties
find "AddressWell"

direct link to png:
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/raw/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2-images/unity_addresswell_inspector.png

Author: Let's just go with AddressField (TMP).

   1. Change **Name** to "Go Button"
   1. Change **PosX**, **PosY**, **PosZ** to 242, 178, -5, respectively.
   1. Change **Width** & **Height** to 75, 30 respectively:

   ![Updated Go Button Properties in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_gobutton_inspector.png)

1. Update the WebView's properties by selecting it in the **Hierarchy** pane, then making the following changes in the **Inspector** pane:
   1. Change **PosX**, **PosY**, **PosZ** to 0, -16, -5, respectively.
   1. Change **Scale** for X, Y, Z to 570, 340, 1 respectively:

   ![Updated WebView Properties in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_webview_transform_inspector.png)

1. Add a background image to the **Canvas**:
   1. Select the Canvas in the **Hierarchy** pane.
   1. Click the **Add Component** button at the bottom of the **Inspector** pane.
   1. Type **Image** and then select the top result in the list.
   1. Click the **Color** well for the image and then choose a background color. In our example, we chose a gray color. (This is simply to show some contrast between the different controls in the canvas.)

>    ![Change Back Button text in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_canvasimage_inspector.png)

Reviewer: alt-text seems wrong

Reviewer: locally changed alt text to
```
   ![Set the background color of the Canvas in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_canvasimage_inspector.png)
```
you can close this thread

1. In the **Hierarchy** pane, under **Back Button**, select **Text (TMP)**.  Then in the **Inspector** pane, change the **Text Input** to **Back**:

>    ![Change Go Button text in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_backbutton_text.png)

Reviewer: wrong alt-text, changed locally to
```
![Change button's text to 'Back' in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_backbutton_text.png)
```
you can close this thread

      !['Device' selected in the 'deployment target' dropdown menu in Visual Studio's toolbar](./hololens2-images/visualstudio_select_device.png)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Remote Connection

To set up your remote connection:

1. On the menu bar, select **Project > Properties > Configuration Properties > Debugging**.

1. Click the **Debugger to launch** drop-down and then select **Remote Machine**.

1. In the **Machine Name** field, enter the IP address of your device.
    * You can find the IP address on your HoloLens 2 under **Settings > Network & Internet > Advanced Options**.
    * We recommend that you manually enter your IP address rather than depend on the "Auto Detected" feature:

    ![The Debugging settings in Project Settings dialog with Machine Name set](./hololens2-images/visualstudio_remote_ip.png)

1. Set the **Authentication Mode** to **Universal (Unencrypted protocol)**.

1. Build, deploy, and debug your app based on your needs:
    * To build, deploy, and start debugging, select **Debug > Start debugging**.
    * To build and deploy without debugging, select **Build > Deploy Solution**.

> 1. The first time you deploy an app to your HoloLens 2 from your PC, you'll be prompted for a PIN. Follow the Pairing your device instructions below.

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth - where's "Pairing your device" instructions?
locally changed to:
```
Follow the **Pairing your device**<!--todo--> instructions below.
```

        var hitCoord = ConvertToWebViewSpace(eventData.position.x, eventData.position.y);

        WebViewMouseEventData mouseEvent = new WebViewMouseEventData
        {
            X = hitCoord.x,
            Y = hitCoord.y,
            Type = PointerEvent.PointerDown,
            Button = PointerButton.Left,
            TertiaryAxisDeviceType = WebViewMouseEventData.TertiaryAxisDevice.PointingDevice
        };

        // Propagate the event to the WebView plugin.
        mouseEventsWebView.MouseEvent(mouseEvent);
    }
}
```

In the above example, pointer-down events are converted into `WebViewMouseEventData` objects and forwarded to the WebView plugin for Unity. It is essentially converted into a mouse-down event. In order to effect mouse click events, pointer-up events would need to be handled in a similar fashion.

In the example above, `ConvertToWebViewSpace` is intentionally not implemented.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

* [Get started with WebView2 in WinUI 2 (UWP) apps](./winui2.md)
* [WebView2 API Reference](../webview2-api-reference.md)

> <!-- todo: un-comment when http://learn.microsoft.com/windows/mixed-reality/develop/advanced-concepts/webview2-unity-plugin exists

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth @RobertVS-MS -- should this PR un-comment this link?  There are 3 instances in this file.  

If we un-comment them in this PR, the doc build will report three 404s, until the target PR is merged to "live".  After that PR is published, we could push a whitespace or date change in the present PR, to trigger a doc build and see the 404s go away.

Author: I think we should go ahead and un-comment. We're planning to publish multiple related PRs, all with links pointing to each other. So, until everything's live, we're going to have broken links.

Reviewer: done.  
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/blob/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2.md
3x   "API Reference"

can close this thread

![The Current URL input field for WebView prefab in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_inspector_change_url.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 6 - Configure WebView2 settings and properties

While the prefab exposes just a single property, there is more functionality exposed on the `WebView` script. Let's take a look are exposing some of this functionality in our project. First, we recommend reviewing the `WebView` script to get an idea of what's available. There is further functionality available in the underlying WebView2, but this will give you a good idea of the basics.

To view the `WebView` script, in the **Inspector** window, double-click the `WebView` script. This opens the script in your default code editor.

Now that you've reviewed the `WebView` code, let's extend the functionality of our sample. To do that, we'll create a new script that derives from `WebView`.

1. In the **Inspector** window for WebView, click **Add Component**, select **New script**, type **WebViewBrowser**, and then click **Create and add**. Your new component is added to the **Inspector** window.

> 1. In the **Inspect**<!--todo: Inspector?--> window, double-click the `WebViewBrowser` script, to edit the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Inspector** window, double-click the `WebViewBrowser` script, to edit the script.
```

   ![Change Back Button text in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_canvasimage_inspector.png)

1. In the **Hierarchy** pane, under **Back Button**, select **Text (TMP)**.  Then in the **Inspector** pane, change the **Text Input** to **Back**:

   ![Change Go Button text in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_backbutton_text.png)

1. Repeat the above process for **Go Button**, substituting **Go** as the text.

   You should now have a scene which looks similar to the following:

   ![The current scene in Unity's Scene view](./hololens2-images/unity_completed_scene.png)

1. Connect WebViewBrowser prefabs:
   1. Select the WebViewBrowser.
   1. Drag **Back Button** from the Hierarchy pane into the **Back Button** variable field for the WebView Browser in the Inspector.
   1. Drag **Go Button** from the Hierarchy pane into the **Go Button** variable field for the WebView Browser in the Inspector:

   ![The WebView Browser Prefab with assigned variables in Unity's Inspector](./hololens2-images/unity_webview_connect_prefabs.png)

> 1. Test the scene in the Editor. Now that everything is wired up in your scene, you should be able to play the scene inside Unity. Try testing out the scene by entering a new URL into the field<!--todo: what field?  give name of field/UI control label, or some description/location in window; the Address bar?--> (must be a complete URL), then pressing the **Go** button. Make sure the **Back** button works, as well.

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth idk context.  What field? 
Give name of field/UI control label, or some description/location in window; the Address bar?

Reviewer: need screenshot here?

Author: It's the AddressField, which is the text input control shown just above in ./hololens2-images/unity_completed_scene.png.

Reviewer: gh rendered: scroll up from
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/blob/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/get-started/hololens2.md#step-7---build-and-deploy-the-hololens-2-app-with-webview2

Author: Right, that's the placeholder text. We can refer to as that, if you want.

Reviewer: locally changed to
```
Try testing out the scene by entering a new URL into the **Enter text*** field (must be a complete URL), and then clicking the **Go** button.
```
you can close this thread

* **Enterprise authentication**: Automatic Single Sign-On (SSO) leveraging OS-level tokens is currently not supported in WebView2 on HoloLens 2. Users can still sign in by providing credentials, except for cases requiring device-level authentication. Cookie storage works as expected.

* **User interactions**: Unlike native HoloLens 2 slates, WebView2 is best interacted with using far-interaction hand rays. Touch-to-swipe and scroll interactions might not be supported.

* **Performance**: Complex websites with heavy use of JavaScript or advanced rendering may impact system performance or the host application's framerate. For general performance-related limitations and recommendations, see [Understanding performance for mixed reality](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/advanced-concepts/understanding-performance-for-mixed-reality) in the Mixed Reality documentation. Also see [Performance optimization](#performance-optimization), below.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Navigation

In Step 6, we touched on some navigation methods. In this section, we'll expand on what we learned.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### IWebView interface

> <!-- todo: link to API Ref for IWebView

Reviewer: is there online API Ref?  didn't find.

Author: Nothing's published other than what's in this document currently.

Reviewer: changed hidden comment to
```
<!-- possible later to do: link to API Ref [IWebView::Load method]()-->
```
you can close this thread

            TertiaryAxisDeviceType = WebViewMouseEventData.TertiaryAxisDevice.PointingDevice
        };

        // Propagate the event to the WebView plugin.
        mouseEventsWebView.MouseEvent(mouseEvent);
    }
}
```

In the above example, pointer-down events are converted into `WebViewMouseEventData` objects and forwarded to the WebView plugin for Unity. It is essentially converted into a mouse-down event. In order to effect mouse click events, pointer-up events would need to be handled in a similar fashion.

In the example above, `ConvertToWebViewSpace` is intentionally not implemented.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Performance optimization

Optimizing the performance of WebView2 in your HoloLens 2 Unity app is crucial for a smooth user experience. Here are some recommendations:

* **Limit the number of WebView2 instances**: We suggest using only one instance of WebView2 within a Unity app. Reuse the same instance or tear down and create a new one as needed. Keep in mind that removing the WebView prefab from the scene may not destroy the underlying WebView2 instance. You must call the `Destroy()` method on the game object to destroy it properly.

> * **Use TrySuspendAsync API**: When the WebView2 is not being presented to the user, use the `TrySuspendAsync` API to reduce memory usage. You will need to get the native WebView2 instance, to call this API (⚠️ this is TBD, and we will update this section<!--todo--> accordingly ⚠️).

Reviewer: link to this api ref?  https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.trysuspendasync?view=webview2-dotnet-1.0.1722.45

if so, copy/paste tab-set tagging including terminator `---`; find Tab in this file, eg:

```
##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2.SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping Method](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.setvirtualhostnametofoldermapping)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2.SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping Method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2#setvirtualhostnametofoldermapping)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2_3::SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping method](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2_3#setvirtualhostnametofoldermapping)

---

```
If we want such links, i can implement or finalize that

* Set up your development tools for creating HoloLens 2 Unity apps that use WebView2 to display web content.
* Install the Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK) by using the Mixed Reality Feature Tool.
* Create an initial Unity project for HoloLens 2 development.
* Add the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin for Unity.
* Configure a WebView2 prefab that displays webpage content in your HoloLens 2 app.
* Learn about WebView2 concepts and interactions in Unity.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Completed project

A completed version of this Getting Started project is available in the **WebView2Samples** repo. You can use the completed project (from the repo or from following the steps below) as a baseline to add more WebView2 functionality and other features to your HoloLens 2 Unity app.

A completed version of this tutorial project is available in the **WebView2Samples** repo:

* Sample name: **HoloLens2_GettingStarted**
* Repo directory: [HoloLens2_GettingStarted](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Samples/tree/main/GettingStartedGuides/HoloLens2_GettingStarted)
* Unity project folder: **HoloLens2GetStartedApp**

Follow the major Step sections in sequence, below.

> <!-- ------------------------------ -->

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth review restructured section "About HoloLens 2, Unity, Mixed Reality Toolkit, and WebView2"

Author: Looks good.

Reviewer: this thread can be closed

#### About HoloLens 2, Unity, Mixed Reality Toolkit, and WebView2

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
###### HoloLens 2

**HoloLens 2** is a groundbreaking, untethered holographic device, offering a hands-free and immersive mixed reality experience. HoloLens 2 seamlessly overlays digital information onto the real world, rendering high-definition holograms that stay in place and respond naturally to interaction.

You use the Unity game engine and Visual Studio to create your HoloLens 2 project.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
###### Unity

**Unity**, a versatile game engine, is a popular choice for creating 3D applications, including mixed reality experiences for HoloLens 2 devices, due to its extensive features and robust capabilities for augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), and mixed reality (MR).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
###### Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK)

> 

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth - review table
* sequence of row
* Description column summary sentences.
* Goal: differentiate roles of the 3 things

---
title: Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps
description: Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 05/02/2023
---
# Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps (Preview)

This tutorial is for developers using WebView2 in immersive HoloLens 2 Unity applications.

> 

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth  @nishitha-burman - review the below paragraph, will be propagating it to other pages

Reviewer: other spots to put this note:
* tbd

Reviewer: propagated per other cmts.

done, see fresh https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/2567/files
you can close this Outdated comment; open fresh comment if needed

> WebView2 on HoloLens 2 and the WebView plugin for Unity are both in Preview and are subject to change before general availability.  The WebView2 Preview is available in the Insider preview for Microsoft HoloLens.  To access this Preview, you must be enrolled in the Windows Insider Program; see [Start receiving Insider builds](/hololens/hololens-insider#start-receiving-insider-builds) in _Insider preview for Microsoft HoloLens_.

Reviewer 2: preview -> Preview

Reviewer: do you mean change to:
available in the Insider Preview for Microsoft HoloLens

Reviewer: you can close this thread

> WebView2 on HoloLens 2 and the WebView plugin for Unity are both in Preview and are subject to change before general availability.  The WebView2 Preview is available in the Insider Preview for Microsoft HoloLens.  To access this Preview, you must be enrolled in the Windows Insider Program; see [Start receiving Insider builds](/hololens/hololens-insider#start-receiving-insider-builds) in _Insider preview for Microsoft HoloLens_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WebView2 on HoloLens 2 and the WebView plugin for Unity are both in Preview and are subject to change before general availability.  The WebView2 Preview is available in the Insider Preview for Microsoft HoloLens.  To access this preview, you must be enrolled in the Windows Insider Program; see [Start receiving Insider builds](/hololens/hololens-insider#start-receiving-insider-builds) in _Insider preview for Microsoft HoloLens_.
```

Reviewer: fixed locally, will push.
you can close this comment

1. Click the gear button.  The **Settings** pane opens.

1. Click the **Feature** tab, and then make sure the **Show preview releases** checkbox is selected:

   ![the Feature tab in Settings for the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](./hololens2-images/feature_enable_preview_releases.png)

1. Click the **Ok** button to return to the starting page.

1. Click the **Start** button to begin discovering feature packages.

1. Point the Mixed Reality Feature Tool to your Unity project.  To do this, click the **Browse for the project folder** (**...**) button to the right of the **Project Path** field:

   ![Select the Unity project in the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](./hololens2-images/feature_tool_select_unity_project.png)

1. In the file selection dialog, select your Unity project folder, and then click the **Open** button.

1. In the **Select project** dialog, click the **Discover Features** button.

1. In the **Discover Features** page, expand the **Other features** section, and then select the **Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView** checkbox:

   ![The Discover Features pane in the Mixed Reality Feature Tool](./hololens2-images/mrtk_webview2_selected.png)

>    This marks the WebView plugin for Unity for installation. In the version dropdown, by default, the latest version of the plugin is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This marks the WebView plugin for Unity for installation. In the **Version** dropdown, by default, the latest version of the plugin is selected.
```

Reviewer: fixed locally better; added "list"

Reviewer: latest Files Changed has bold init cap + "list"
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/2567/files

can close this thread

    {
        Debug.Log("WebView2 message received: " + message);
    }
}
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Additional considerations for WebView2 on HoloLens 2

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Limitations and known issues

When developing a HoloLens 2 Unity app with WebView2, be aware of some limitations and known issues:

* **Pop-ups**: Pop-ups don't work well within WebView2 inside Unity apps on HoloLens 2, but they work fine in 2D XAML apps on the device. Avoid pop-ups and use alternative techniques or UI designs, such as custom pop-up-like elements within the WebView using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

* **New windows**: WebView2 instances on HoloLens 2 navigate within the same window by default, unlike on Desktop. Follow this default behavior for a better user experience. Additionally, the DevTools window cannot be launched.

* **Enterprise authentication**: Automatic Single Sign-On (SSO) leveraging OS-level tokens is currently not supported in WebView2 on HoloLens 2. Users can still sign in by providing credentials, except for cases requiring device-level authentication. Cookie storage works as expected.

> * **User interactions**: Unlike native HoloLens 2 slates, WebView2 is best interacted with using far-interaction hand rays. Touch-to-swipe and scroll interactions might not be supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **User interactions**: Unlike native HoloLens 2 slates, WebView2 is best interacted with by using far-interaction hand rays. Touch-to-swipe and scroll interactions might not be supported.
```
d/k phrase "far-interaction hand rays"

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with -- "In instructions or technical content, use _by using_ or _that use_ to eliminate ambiguity."

Reviewer: added "by" locally

Reviewer: latest Files Changed tab has "by"
https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/2567/files

can close this thread

* **Performance**: Complex websites with heavy use of JavaScript or advanced rendering may impact system performance or the host application's framerate. For general performance-related limitations and recommendations, see [Understanding performance for mixed reality](/windows/mixed-reality/develop/advanced-concepts/understanding-performance-for-mixed-reality) in the Mixed Reality documentation. Also see [Performance optimization](#performance-optimization), below.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Navigation

In Step 6, we touched on some navigation methods. In this section, we'll expand on what we learned.

> <!-- ---------- -->

Reviewer: i think this is the "APIs" section Rob suggests moving to a new sep. article

Reviewer: @RobertVS-MS - at some point, this page will need to link to the forthcoming API Ref, in the other repo.  Maybe I will add a hidden link here and in See Also at bottom.

Author: I'd like to keep them. Reeza suggested we can add links to the API documention after it goes live.

Reviewer: can close this thread

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 05/02/2023
---
# Get started with WebView2 in HoloLens 2 Unity apps (Preview)

This tutorial is for developers using WebView2 in immersive HoloLens 2 Unity applications.  WebView2 on HoloLens 2 and the WebView plugin for Unity are both in Preview and are subject to change before general availability.

WebView2 is only supported on HoloLens 2 devices running the Windows 11 update. For more information, see [Update HoloLens 2](/hololens/hololens-update-hololens).

For WebView2-enabled 2D applications on HoloLens 2, see [Get started with WebView2 in WinUI 2 (UWP) apps](./winui2.md).

In this tutorial, you:

* Set up your development tools for creating HoloLens 2 Unity apps that use WebView2 to display web content.
* Install the Mixed Reality Toolkit (MRTK), by using the Mixed Reality Feature Tool.
* Create an initial Unity project for HoloLens 2 development.
* Add the Microsoft Mixed Reality WebView plugin for Unity, by using the Mixed Reality Feature Tool.
* Configure a WebView2 prefab that displays webpage content in your HoloLens 2 app.
* Learn about WebView2 concepts and interactions in Unity.

> <!-- ------------------------------ -->

Reviewer: @nishitha-burman @michaelfarnsworth Pls review the wording, eg the link text says "HoloLens" not "2", b/c destination page title omits "2".  that page sometimes has "2".

Reviewer 2: I think we should mention this higher up in the documentation. Either the first sentence or after the first two sentences "This tutorial is for developers ...general availability." Or maybe incorporate into the "This tutorial is for developers..."

Reviewer: Which Step section should this h4 section be moved into?  Should it become an h2 Step section?  (affects numbering of major Steps)

Reviewer: moved draft up, improved it, closing.

    event WebView_OnNavigated Navigated;

    Uri Page { get; }

    void Load(Uri url);

    void Reload(bool ignoreCache);
}
```

<!-- ---------- -->
###### IWithBrowserHistory interface

The `IWithBrowserHistory` interface exposes a few methods and events related to page navigation. This mainly allows developers to navigate forward and backward, as you would expect with a typical web-browsing experience:

```C#
public interface IWithBrowserHistory : IWebView
{
    // Non-navigation methods are removed for clarity.

    event WebView_OnCanGoForwardUpdated CanGoForwardUpdated;

    event WebView_OnCanGoBackUpdated CanGoBackUpdated;

    void GoBack();

    void GoForward();
}
```

<!-- ---------- -->
###### SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping and SetVirtualHostMapping

The `CoreWebView2.SetVirtualHostNameToFolderMapping` method enables mapping between a virtual host name and a folder path, making it accessible to websites using that host name. This method maps a local domain name to a local folder, so that the WebView2 control loads content from the specified local folder when attempting to access a resource for that domain.

> ##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth is this article C# only?  if so, remove `#tab` lines and `---` terminator and just keep the first, .net link.

Author: Yeah, we should stick with C#.

Author: In fact, we may want to remove the API reference. Technically, that is the underlying API, but it's wrapped, instead of a true projection. Consequently, the API surface is slightly different. Not sure if there's a protocol to follow in that case.

            TertiaryAxisDeviceType = WebViewMouseEventData.TertiaryAxisDevice.PointingDevice
        };

        // Propagate the event to the WebView plugin.
        mouseEventsWebView.MouseEvent(mouseEvent);
    }
}
```

In the above example, pointer-down events are converted into `WebViewMouseEventData` objects and forwarded to the WebView plugin for Unity. It is essentially converted into a mouse-down event. In order to effect mouse click events, pointer-up events would need to be handled in a similar fashion.

In the example above, `ConvertToWebViewSpace` is intentionally not implemented.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Performance optimization

Optimizing the performance of WebView2 in your HoloLens 2 Unity app is crucial for a smooth user experience. Here are some recommendations:

* **Limit the number of WebView2 instances**: We suggest using only one instance of WebView2 within a Unity app. Reuse the same instance or tear down and create a new one as needed. Keep in mind that removing the WebView prefab from the scene may not destroy the underlying WebView2 instance. You must call the `Destroy()` method on the game object to destroy it properly.

> * **Use TrySuspendAsync API**: When the WebView2 is not being presented to the user, use the `TrySuspendAsync` API to reduce memory usage. You will need to get the native WebView2 instance, to call this API (⚠️ this is TBD, and we will update this section<!--todo--> accordingly ⚠️).

Reviewer: @michaelfarnsworth todo: update if can do in this PR.  Added API Ref tab-set below.
such tabs and links are in .md file
https://github.com/michaelfarnsworth/edge-developer/blob/webview2-hololens-getting-started/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis.md
which is live at 
https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/overview-features-apis

basically at API Ref sites, i grabbed url, deleted left part, deleted &version=123

Reviewer: is this article C# only? if so, remove #tab lines and --- terminator and just keep the first, .net link.

Author: @JordanMandel are we going to keep this section about TrySuspendAsync()?

Reviewer: you can close this thread
